Welcome, dear brothers and sisters,
to our update!
We’d like to begin with a brief report
about some of the disasters
that have continued to affect
our brothers recently.
In September, our brothers in Greece
faced heavy rain and severe flooding.
In October, our brothers in Mexico
dealt with a Category 5 hurricane,
which caused widespread damage.
And in November,
our brothers in the Philippines
experienced a magnitude 6.7 earthquake.
Sadly, as a result of the earthquake,
one of our dear sisters died
and ten brothers and sisters were injured.
We continue to pray for those affected
by the many disasters
happening around the world.
But we thank all of you
for your support and prayers.
Some of you
are working hard with disaster relief.
And many more of you
are making generous donations,
which allow us to provide the necessities
for our brothers and sisters
and to rebuild their homes and Kingdom Halls.
We’re so grateful for your help!
On behalf of the Governing Body,
we say thank you!
But now, for the rest of our update,
let’s discuss the theme
“We Recommend Ourselves
as God’s Ministers.”
This is based on 2 Corinthians 6:4,
where the apostle Paul said:
“In every way we recommend ourselves
as God’s ministers.”
What does that mean?
The study note on this verse says:
“The Greek verb rendered
‘we recommend ourselves
“‘conveys the idea
we prove [or] (show) ourselves to be.’”
But how do we show ourselves
to be ministers of the true God?
One important way is by our appearance.
We all want to reflect well
on the God we love and worship.
How do we do that?
By following Bible principles.
For example, consider the principle
recorded at 1 Timothy 2:9, 10:
“Likewise, the women should adorn themselves
“in appropriate dress,
“with modesty and soundness of mind,
“not with styles of hair braiding and gold
“or pearls or very expensive clothing,
“but in the way that is proper for women
“for women professing devotion to God,
namely, through good works.”
Although that counsel is directed
to Christian women,
the principle applies equally
to men and women.
So one way all of us
can “recommend ourselves as God’s ministers”
is by making sure that our appearance
is appropriate and modest,
reflecting soundness of mind.
But does that mean
that all of Jehovah’s Witnesses
make the same choices?
Should we wear a uniform
or adopt a single form
of appropriate dress and grooming?
Of course not.
There are well over eight million
of Jehovah’s Witnesses worldwide,
and we have a wide range of cultures.
Jehovah has drawn these millions of people,
and he loves variety!
But now we ask:
What about the wearing of a beard?
Is that an appropriate choice
for a brother to make?
To help us answer that question,
let’s watch the following video,
which reviews the history of beards
among Jehovah’s people.
In patriarchal times,
it was customary for men to wear beards.
This practice continued among the Israelites.
An Israelite man would shave
only when he was humiliated or grieving.
For example, when the king of Ammon
humiliated David’s servants
by shaving their beards,
David protected their dignity
by telling them:
“Stay in Jericho until your beards grow back,
and then return.”
Centuries later,
the prophet Ezekiel shaved his beard
and his head to symbolize
the great distress and grief
that would soon afflict Jerusalem.
What about Jesus?
Did he too, as an Israelite, wear a beard?
For some years,
based on the conclusions
of certain archaeologists,
our publications most often portrayed Jesus
as clean-shaven.
But in 1968, The Watchtower
considered more reliable evidence
from both historical sources
and the Scriptures.
None of the four Gospels indicate
that Jesus’ appearance
stood out as different.
He did what was customary
among Jewish men at that time:
He wore a beard.
Our videos and artwork
in our publications ever since
have consistently portrayed Jesus
with a well-groomed beard.
By the time the Christian congregation
was established,
the Romans had adopted
the practice of shaving.
Were Jewish Christians
then expected to shave,
or were Gentile Christians
expected to grow beards
in order to blend in
with their Jewish brothers?
Evidently not.
Since the Scriptures
neither command true worshippers
to grow a beard
nor command them to shave,
this was a matter of personal decision.
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries,
beards were common
even among the Bible students,
as seen in these photos of pilgrim brothers
who traveled for the organization.
Brother Russell too wore a beard.
One newspaper editor called him
a “well-groomed minister.”
He said: “It had never occurred to me
“he was any different
“from thousands of other preachers . . .
“His soft, white, flowing beard is . . .
“the beard of a patriarch, a father.
It gives you confidence.”
Soon after World War I,
shaving enjoyed a resurgence in popularity.
In 1919,
when this photo of the pilgrims was taken,
most did not have a beard.
Therefore, although our publications
said little about the subject at the time,
very few brothers grew beards.
Starting in the 1960’s, in many lands,
beards became associated with those
who were rebelling
against established authority.
Where that was the case, most men
—both Witnesses and non-Witnesses—
chose to shave.
Because of the negative connotations
associated with wearing a beard,
most brothers who wore a beard
did not serve as ministerial servants,
elders, or in other appointed positions.
With the passing of time, in some lands,
beards became more common
and were not associated with rebellion.
In those places, some brothers with beards
were appointed
as ministerial servants and elders.
In recent times, the wearing of a beard
has become common in many more lands.
So how should we view a brother
who chooses to grow a beard today?
The video ended with an intriguing question:
How should we view a brother
who chooses to grow a beard today?
The Governing Body has asked me to read
the following announcement:
“A number of branch offices around the world
“have written to us indicating
“that there continue to be questions
“about whether or not it is proper
“for a brother in an appointed position
to wear a beard.
“After prayerful consideration,
“the Governing Body has concluded
“that there is a need to clarify this matter.
“The Governing Body does not have an issue
“with brothers wearing beards.
“Why not?
“Because the Scriptures
do not condemn the wearing of beards.
“Furthermore, as time has passed,
“we have noted that in many lands,
“it is acceptable for men
who hold responsible positions
“in business and government to wear beards.
“Thus, whether a brother wears a beard
“is a personal decision.
“A brother’s qualifications
“to serve as an elder
or ministerial servant
“are based on his spirituality,
“not on whether he chooses to wear a beard.
“This direction also applies
“to special full-time servants at Bethel
“and those in the field,
including special pioneers,
“missionaries, and circuit overseers.
“In harmony with Romans 14:4,
“neither the elders nor any other Christian
“should feel compelled to judge a brother
“who chooses to wear a beard.
“We trust that these comments
“will help us to remain on guard
“against anything that might cause division
among Jehovah’s people”
—end of the announcement
from the Governing Body.
This direction, however,
may raise some questions.
For example, here’s one:
Why is the Governing Body
providing this direction at this time?
Well, as recorded at 1 Corinthians 7:31,
the apostle Paul was inspired to write:
“The scene of this world is changing.”
The study note on that verse shows
that Paul may have been alluding
to the way that scenes change swiftly
in a theater,
with actors passing quickly
on and off the stage.
In keeping with the principle
of Paul’s inspired statement,
grooming styles have changed over the years.
For example, more and more, beards
are worn by men in responsible positions
who project a respectable appearance.
Here’s another question:
How should we view a brother
who decides to grow a beard?
Well, we should apply Jesus’ counsel
found at John 7:24:
“Stop judging by the outward appearance.”
As we saw in the video,
grooming styles have changed over time.
Not all of such changes are bad.
To illustrate: None of us
would likely choose
to dress and groom ourselves
as people did in Bible times
nor even as people did a century ago.
In fact, most choose to follow the styles
that are prevalent now,
not those from decades past.
Generally speaking, it’s not bad or wrong
to dress and groom ourselves
as people in our community commonly do
as long as that style
does not violate Bible principles.
We always want to be sure
that our appearance
reflects cleanliness,
modesty, and soundness of mind.
Here’s another question:
How can we promote unity
in light of this direction?
Well, after viewing this program,
some might have to contend
with strong feelings.
For example, some might feel
as though they’ve been vindicated,
saying, in effect:
“This is what I’ve been saying
for a long time.
This proves that I was right all along!”
Others might feel disappointed,
saying, in effect:
“I supported the policy
about grooming for all those years.
Now I feel let down!”
But is either reaction appropriate?
Not really.
Note what the apostle Paul
was inspired to write
at 1 Corinthians chapter 1
and verse number 10:
“Now I urge you, brothers,
“through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
“that you should all speak in agreement
“and that there should be
no divisions among you,
“but that you may be completely united
in the same mind
and in the same line of thought.”
How does that principle apply here?
Well, if we’ve been promoting
our own opinion on this subject,
contradicting the guidance
from the organization,
have we been promoting unity?
Have we helped the brotherhood
to be “completely united . . .
in the same line of thought”?
Clearly not.
Any who’ve done so
need to adjust their thinking and attitude.
On the other hand,
if we’ve loyally supported
the organization’s direction
over the years,
do we have any Scriptural reason
to regret our course?
Certainly not!
Jehovah values our loyal service;
he also appreciates our humble willingness
to be obedient and submissive
to the direction we receive
from God’s organization.
Back in the first century C.E.,
some Christians allowed
the issue of circumcision
to cause division.
But the holy spirit
directed the governing body
to resolve that issue and promote unity.
Similarly, the Governing Body today
is striving to promote unity.
We would never want the matter of beards
to cause division among us.
All of us need to remember
that the earthly part
of Jehovah’s organization
is always striving
to reflect the heavenly part
—to keep up with it, as it were.
Remember how fast
the chariot in Ezekiel’s vision moved?
Like “flashes of lightning.”
Any who seek to run ahead of that chariot,
trying to force change prematurely,
or who lag behind,
hesitating to support changes
that have come from the faithful slave,
are not keeping pace
with Jehovah’s organization.
In conclusion, are we not grateful
for this balanced direction regarding beards?
Jehovah has dignified us.
He allows each brother the freedom
to choose whether or not
he will wear a beard.
We’re confident that all of you
are determined to keep pace,
adjust your views as needed,
and continue to serve Jehovah loyally,
promoting love and unity
among your brothers and sisters.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.